Come.
We must act quickly
to maintain our hold on the Great Houses.
What about the Emperor?
You've been barred from the palace.
This is not the first time
an adversary has sought to remove me.
Like the others, this soldier will learn.
You have to get underneath it!
- They're all the same.
- How much for this one?
Same as every day.
Yes?
What do you want?
- The usual.
- I'll take that one. The big one.
I should've just done the shopping myself.
Even your younger sister
has the good sense
to request decent cuts of meat.
Perhaps you should've sent Tula, then.
Oh, well, she was busy preparing
- the rest of the meal.
- Mum, I don't mind.
Thank you both, sisters,
for procuring and preparing this meal.
Your uncle has no complaints.
You're really going to Zimia, Griffin?
Well, the Landsraad accepted our petition.
When I get there,
I'm gonna get us a better trade deal.
I admire your mettle, son.
His whale fur
will always be a prized export.
You mock, but it's a fact.
I'd like to shove it in Vorian's face
once you've made your mark.
I'm gonna miss you, big brother.
Here. I carved this.
For your collection.
What do you mean Vorian? Vorian Atreides?
After doing God knows what,
he's resurfaced,
gallivanting around the Capital.
This is an opportunity.
To do what?
Whale peddling can only take us so far.
If you go and find Vorian...
- Oh, no.
- ...make him understand what happened.
Get him to correct the record
so that we can reclaim our status.
Your father has plenty of status.
Oh, yes. The mayor of peasants.
- Valya.
- Your grandfather, Abulurd Harkonnen,
was a hero.
He didn't commit a war crime.
He tried to stop a genocide.
Vorian Atreides stripped
our family of its honor based on a lie.
We should be leaders of the Imperium.
I don't understand where it comes from.
Your greed, this entitlement.
I don't want to just endure.
This complacency is a disease.
If we don't act now,
it will infect all of us
and all who come after us.
I won't sit by and let it happen!
Griffin, do not follow her.
She's a wolf.
And if you're not careful,
she will devour you.
Is she right?
Am I entitled, greedy?
No. They're not like you, Valya.
You mean like us.
You remember when
I fell through the ice, into that river?
The cold was like a vice.
Soon as I hit that water,
my muscles seized.
And like a fool, you came out after me.
I am the fool who saved you.
I still don't understand how.
I mean, I was sinking.
Then I heard you, your voice in my head,
ordering me to swim.
Because of you, I didn't die that day.
You're not entitled or greedy.
You're extraordinary.
And that's why if you think
the best course of action
is to track down Vorian Atreides
and get him to take back his lies,
I will.
The Imperium will be better
for our contribution, Griffin.
We deserve to make it.
We will. You'll see.
Griffin Harkonnen,
son of Vergyl and Sonia Harkonnen.
You leave behind a family
forever broken by your loss.
You were our family's brightest light.
The ancestors are fortunate
to receive you.
Until we meet again.
Valya.
Come inside.
I don't want to mourn.
Vorian murdered Griffin,
and now he's disappeared again.
It's not fair.
I want the Atreides
to suffer like we have.
But I can't because they're making me
go away to Wallach IX.
Valya, the Sisterhood will help you.
There's only one thing
that'll help me, little sister,
but our family doesn't
have the stomach for it.
An eye for an eye
will never be enough, Valya.
Griffin was worth far more than that.
Whatever path you choose,
don't stay on this nightmare of a planet.
Find something, anything.
All that's left here is death and rot.
If they can cast out Mother Superior,
what does that mean for the Order?
Corrino could call for our dismissal.
Cost us all the Great Houses.
They say he was swallowed
by Shai-Hulud and survived.
What if it's true
that he is touched by the Maker?
How else could he resist
Mother Valya's power?
- Perhaps regroup on Wallach IX.
- Wallach IX?
Our mission is here.
Sisters,
remember your resolve.
Mother Valya, you have our loyalty.
How do you want to proceed?
Return to your nobles.
Counter any attempts
to sow further mistrust.
I will regain our hold on Corrino.
Excuse me a minute.
This came from Tula.
Sister Lila?
She didn't survive the Agony.
I had hoped to reach Raquella for answers.
You did. Raquella spoke through her.
She said the key to the reckoning
was one twice born,
in blood and in spice.
It's Desmond Hart.
What are you gonna do?
I think a trip home is called for.
I thought you could do
with some spice tea.
Mother Valya drinks a cup every day
for clarity of thought,
especially during trying circumstances.
You're grieving.
That's human.
What was it Raquella used to say?
"We must channel our human energy
in the service of the future."
No one has ever returned
from the state this child is in.
Keeping Sister Lila in this limbo
sows pain and confusion.
I am sorry this happened.
But Mother Valya has made it very clear
how we handle cases like this.
We must let her go.
If you would like...
- I could relieve you of your--
- Don't.
Don't touch her.
I will do what needs to be done
when I choose.
Thank you for your care and counsel,
Sister Avila.
That will be all.
- You okay?
- Yeah.
Jet loves it up here.
He remembers the yearly hunt.
It's beautiful.
We're first to arrive.
We can claim whatever quarters we want.
Maybe we should wait
for the rest of your family
- to get here before we--
- You're nervous.
No, I'd like to make a good impression.
But who wouldn't be enchanted by you?
Well, my own family wasn't.
It's just, you're so close with yours,
- if they don't approve, then--
- Hey. It's not possible.
They're gonna adore you, like I do.
So, Tula, how'd you meet Orry?
I was at a market,
and he struck up a conversation.
Guess we're still talking.
Have you taken him to meet your people?
There's barely any of us left.
You said we could
shoot target practice this afternoon.
Yes, after the work's done.
We've got firewood to collect.
Continue this later?
I could use a hand.
If you don't mind getting
those hands dirty with blood and guts.
I don't mind that.
To catch the bull,
we need to lure it with bait.
Use this tool.
It smells gross.
To you and me.
To Salusan bull, it smells like dinner.
These bulls are rare, shy creatures.
Without a scent to lure them,
the hunters on horseback
wouldn't stand a chance.
Now, this next part is tricky.
Alright, so you see this?
There's a toxin in there
powerful enough to kill a person.
True strength
isn't always something
you see from the outside.
So, just be careful not to rupture it,
or you'll contaminate everything.
Just remove it gently.
Then...
you dump the innards
in a separate bucket.
Wanna do the next one?
Okay.
Yeah, that's great.
- Then, go...
- Well done.
Jetty!
Hey!
Stay with him!
Stay back! Stay back!
Shattered leg.
What happened?
We were coming down from the ridge
and the path gave way.
Broken, two places. I'm sorry, Orry.
What about a shigawire fuse.
We can splint the breaks.
Horses live on their feet.
Then a suspension sling.
He'll just kick himself to death
trying to get out of it.
We do what we must, Tula.
Just stay with him. I'll be right back.
This will be better.
Yeah.
What is truthsense?
- The science of detecting falsehood.
- That's right.
But it is more
than being a human lie detector.
It is our Order's guiding purpose.
How?
We use it to serve the Imperium.
What if the Imperium's corrupt?
We exert a subtle influence,
call humanity to its better nature.
Are there occasions where
you withhold the truth?
Just because the leaders are told,
it doesn't mean they'll
use it to good ends.
Truth is a tool.
And who should determine
how to use this tool?
You?
You know what truth I see, Sister?
You are scared
because you have nothing to serve,
no purpose, nowhere to put all
that hurt and anger.
You know how truly alone you really are.
Use this truth to motivate your actions.
Tomorrow, you will be tested.
Humble yourself
and commit to the Sisterhood,
or...
resign yourself to an unremarkable life
on a backwater planet.
Now, where were we?
She had no call to read you like that.
You must've really gotten to her.
- It's fine.
- She wasn't always so rigid.
The Sisterhood sent her as an ambassador
to the Butlerians to make inroads.
Instead, she came back as a true believer.
Now she's all about humility
and servitude.
I heard she was next in line
to lead the Order
but now Mother Raquella's not so sure.
Dorotea's far too pious, if you ask me.
I don't care who's next in line
to run the Sisterhood.
Do you even wanna be a Sister?
I was going to be my brother's Truthsayer
when he went to the Landsraad.
Then he was murdered.
- Valya, I'm--
- So sorry.
I didn't want to come after that.
My parents forced me.
They didn't want me on Lankiveil anymore.
What do you want?
Reflect on this.
Would you devote your one small lifetime
to better all of humanity?
Are you able to put
the Sisterhood above all?
Even above your families?
If the answer is yes,
you may return inside.
If not, I encourage you to meditate
on whether or not you belong here.
Sisterhood above all.
Sisterhood above all...
Sisterhood above all!
I'm not interested in a contest of wills,
Sister Valya.
We both know the truth.
You'll always be a Harkonnen.
Come!
Don't move!
Valya Harkonnen?
I am Mother Superior
Raquella Berto-Anirul.
Let's go inside.
I haven't taken my vow.
I'm inviting you to come with me.
Your voice, it stopped me outside.
I've never felt anything like that.
- I'm sorry.
- Don't be.
Has that ever happened before?
Once, with my brother.
He was drowning.
He said I ordered him
to swim when he couldn't.
Crisis, survival,
advancement.
- What?
- The human race is still evolving.
At the Sisterhood,
we work to advance our species.
We found that adversity
is the key to change.
I'm aware of what happened
to your brother, Griffin.
When I lost my husband
in the Machine Wars,
it was like a limb torn off.
Sometimes, our misfortunes are the sails
that take us to the shores
we are meant to be on.
You can achieve extraordinary things here.
Even shape the course of the Imperium,
if you decide to stay.
- Take this to the fire?
- Of course.
- You should join them.
- I'm right where I want to be.
Don't you need to prepare yourself?
Been a hard day.
How did you know what to do?
My brother taught me
how to handle animals.
He taught me lots of things.
Sounds like a good man.
When do I get to meet him?
I wish you could. He died.
Tula.
He still inspires me,
influences how I live my life.
You don't talk much about your family.
My older sister never much cared for me.
And after he died, she went off to school.
My parents were so grief-stricken,
they barely remembered I existed.
I had to leave home just to be seen.
Hey, look at me.
I see you.
When we marry, you'll have more kin
than you'll know what to do with.
"When we marry." Is that a proposal?
Yeah, maybe.
- Yes?
- Yeah.
Yes, it is.
Tula Veil,
will you marry me?
Orry, it's only been a few months. You--
You don't even really know me.
That's all the time I need.
I wanna give you my life,
my future.
Marry me.
Atreides! Atreides! Atreides!
Atreides! Atreides!
My family, they'll be thrilled.
When they find out
you will soon be joining
the Atreides clan.
I need you to know that I regret
that things are the way they are.
For so long,
all I wanted was to tell you.
Tell me what?
I was afraid if you knew who I really am,
you'd never allow yourself
to get close to me,
or love me.
My love isn't fickle.
Whatever hard truth exists,
we'll deal with it together.
You don't need to be afraid.
My name isn't Tula Veil.
I lied to you.
It's Tula Harkonnen.
I certainly understand
why you didn't wanna tell me.
No one chooses the name they're born with.
Could never blame you for that.
- You don't hate me?
- Hate you?
Nothing would make me hate you.
- Our families would disagree.
- Our families?
Yeah, they choose hate
'cause of what they're taught...
that a disagreement between our ancestors
during wartime over a century ago
should bleed into their future,
but that is their burden,
not ours.
It's okay. I promise it's gonna be okay.
Just listen to me.
We will write a future
for ourselves, okay?
Some things can't be changed, Orry.
My brother.
Griffin will still be dead,
and it will still be an Atreides
who killed him.
We do what we must.
I don't understand.
Why is it so quiet?
You didn't see me.
What?
I'm sorry.
Go.
Beware the seeds you sow
and the crops you reap.
Do not be deceived by those
who come bearing false claims of reform.
They are corruptors, yet they know it not.
Word's spreading.
The Great Houses are becoming
more competitive
over who can secure the next Truthsayer.
An arms race.
That's good.
"Thou shalt not make a machine
in the likeness of a human mind."
Thou shalt not make a machine
in the likeness of a human mind.
Where are we going?
To the tunnels.
It's time I show you my life's great work.
Your great work is underground?
In more ways than one.
From the time of the wars,
we've been gathering DNA
from across the Imperium,
indexing bloodlines,
creating a vast genetic library.
Is that how we play matchmaker
for the Great Houses?
You could say that.
If we identify the best pairings,
bolster the right unions,
we can influence generations to come,
foster better leaders,
ones less prone to corruption and tyranny.
Ones who won't drag us
to the edge of extinction again.
I had a feeling you'd understand.
Not everyone will.
That is correct.
What I'm about to show you
relies on forbidden technology.
I'm trusting you.
You have to swear not to breathe
a word of this to anyone.
- Of course not.
- No one.
It's going to be me.
Mother Raquella is going
to make me her successor.
Did she actually tell you?
She trusts me more than Dorotea.
I can tell it's what she wants.
This is wonderful news.
Do you feel ready?
Not always,
but Raquella has faith in me
and what I've been working on.
What have you been working on?
This.
Face her.
Slap her.
I didn't think it would work so well.
How did you do that?
Can you teach us how to do it?
I was hoping you'd ask.
I imagine you're wondering
why I've called you both in.
I've been watching the two of you.
You are the strongest among us.
You've both pushed the boundaries
of what it means to be human.
I believe that you are both
the future leaders of this Order.
I've also watched you
both amass followers.
Such hubris is divisive.
Our Sisterhood is young,
but growing in power.
The more influence we gain,
the more enemies we make.
My time is limited.
I feel it with every breath I draw.
I need you to find a way forward...
as Reverend Mothers.
I'll be here, with you.
You may kneel.
Let Valya and I walk
amongst our foremothers.
Give us the strength to return
and serve as Reverend Mothers.
Valya Harkonnen, it is now time
to wake those who made you.
It is an Agony, but only this once.
Still your breath,
focus your mind,
and unlock your other memory.
I'm sorry.
Mother Raquella wants to see you.
A message has come
from Lankiveil this morning
from your sister, Tula.
This phrase caught my eye:
"The suet has been enjoyed by all.
No more courses to serve."
Felt like a code. Or maybe a confirmation?
It means I have to go home.
We can arrange that. You can leave today.
Thank you.
Your family name has always been
more important to you.
That's why you couldn't
go through with the Agony test,
because you have unfinished business
with your house.
You knew.
From the moment I saw you
that night in the rain.
But I can't afford to be patient.
Go back to Lankiveil,
settle what needs to be settled,
but you must commit to a path.
If you choose the Sisterhood,
you must be willing to sacrifice.
Return a Reverend Mother
or not at all.
Coward.
I got your message.
Is it done?
Orry Atreides is dead?
They all are.
I didn't think you could.
Neither did I.
Griffin would be proud.
Would he?
Why did you bring her,
after what she made you do?
She no longer has a place here.
Why, she's my sister.
It was my choice.
You shouldn't have come back.
You've done enough.
That you have, you hateful girl.
Did you even think how that massacre
will blow back at us?
You should be thanking Tula.
She did what none of you could.
She punished the family
who destroyed ours,
who killed Griffin.
She showed them all that the Harkonnens
are not cowards.
And what if they come after her?
You were a sweet child
only trying to help.
- She twisted you.
- She didn't do anything. I did.
It's never enough, is it?
Your ambition, your rage.
You've already cost us one child.
- And now--
- Be quiet!
Pick up the knife.
What are you doing?
Sorceress!
Valya, open your eyes.
Please, wake up. Valya.
Valya?
Wherever you are, come back.
Please.
Tula?
Oh, you scared me. I thought...
I heard your voice.
What happened?
The Agony.
I survived.
You alright?
Yes.
We should hurry.
We don't want to miss the ship.
You're coming?
I lost Griffin.
I won't lose you too.
Come on.
But Valya,
promise me the Sisterhood
will be a fresh start for us.
We have a new purpose now.
Sisters,
it is time to say goodbye to Sister Lila.
It's alright.
Lila's wisdom still exists.
- She's with her foremothers.
- It's not alright.
You knew how desperate she was
to find out where she came from.
You took advantage of that.
She should never have been asked
to make this sacrifice.
She was a child.
This Order is founded on sacrifice.
Many of your sisters,
some younger than Lila,
have laid down their lives
in the service of our cause.
They understood
that for some of us to advance,
all of us must be willing to risk.
Lila knew that.
She played her part.
Mother Valya would never
have asked her to try
if she didn't believe
that it was necessary.
We owe her our gratitude
and our respect.
And the same for Mother Tula.
And now...
Where are we going now?
The last place anyone
would expect me to be.
Who exactly are we meeting?
Sacrifices must be made.
Sisterhood above all.
Aunt Valya.
What an unexpected surprise.
Never thought I'd live to see the day.
Please,
come in.
Sister.
How is Aunt Tula doing?
I'm just going to put this
in the storeroom.
Mother Tula,
I know how difficult that was for you,
letting Lila go.
I believe Mother Valya would be proud.
Indeed.
Anirul, run diagnostics.
Metabolic activity slowing,
blood pressure, 91.
Pulse rate, 140.
Neural activity, irregular.
Spice can rejuvenate the mind.
She still has a chance
if you administer the correct dosage.
This is not an authorized request.
Mother Valya is off planet.
She entrusted me with the key.
I order you to keep this child alive.
Initiating protocol.